### Syntax

1. Selector
2. Declaration
	a. property
	b. value

The use of whitespace doesn't matter in declaration

## Selector


- It tells the browser which element on the document we want to style.

- It can be grouped together

- Whitespace matters here

### Element selector

Global selector based on individual HTML elements.

```css
	p {font-weight:bold;}
```
### Class selector

Attribute selector based on class attributes applied to HTML elements.

```html

	<h2 class="subHeading">Hello World</h2> 

```

```css
	.subHeading{color:blue;} 
```
### ID selector

- Attribute selector based on ID attributes applied to HTML elements.

- ID must be **unique**  to the page

- If the ID & class conflict each other then ID will be used.

```html

	<div id="sidebar"></h2> 

```

```css 
	#sidebar{width:400px;} 
```

### Element-specific selector

Modified class or ID selector which limits application to a specific element.

```css
	h2.subHeading{color:blue}
	div#sidebar{font-size:80%}
	aside#featuredArticle{ //styles}
```
### Descendent selectors

- Highly specific selectors that target elements **based on their location** within other elements.

- Relation between nested tags and its parents

- Inside of an element.

- Browser reads the selector from RIGHT to left. Its not efficient selector.

```css
	 div p span { color: red} 
```

### Child selectors

Its applied to only the element that are **direct child** of the parent

```css
	article > h2{
		color:#abc;
	}
```
### Adjacent Selector

Based on which element follow one another.

```css
	h2 + p {
		margin:2em;
		font-style:italic;
	}

```
### Attribute Selector

They allow you to target elements based on the element's attribute and the values of those attributes

```css
	a[title="visit ashiknesin.com"]{
		color:red;
	}

	a[title~="visit"] /* It checks words white space seperated word */
	a[title*="visit"] /* It checks words */

	a[href^="http://"] /*  Begins with certain value */
	a[href$="pdf"] /* End with certain value */
```


### Grouping selector

Allows you to group selectors together that share formatting

```css 
	.author, .user{font-size:1.3em;} 
```



### Universal selector

It targets **every single element** on the element in the document.

Don't use it unless you know what you are doing.

```css
	* {color: red;}
```


### Pseudo Class Selector

Target elements based on something other than attributes, content or element type. Usually refers to something that can change over time, or that is based on user interaction.

1. Dynamic Pseudo Class Selector
2. Structural Pseudo Class Selector

```css
	:link /* Target actual links */
	:visited

	:hover
	:active

	:target

	:nth-child(odd)

	/* ============ Structual Pseudo Selector ============= */

	:first-child
	:first-of-type
	:last-of-type

	:only-child 
	
```

The order in which we write this is very important. Because it might overwrite something.

## Class & ID naming conventions

 -	It should be describitive 
 -	No whitespace or specical character
 -	CSS is case-sensitive
 -	Stay consistent with them



## Style Location

1. External Styles (external style sheets)
	
```html

 		<link rel="stylesheet" href="main.css"> 
	
```

2. Embedded Styles

```html
 		<style></style> 
```
	They are mainly used to overwrite external styles

3. Inline styles 

```html

		<p style="font-color:red;">Hello</p> 
	
```

	Using inline styles is discouraged

## Cascade Order


1. External
2. Embedded
3. Inline

The last rule applied WINs
