## Unit Measurements

### Fixed units vs Relative Units

-	Fixed units are displayed at the requested size, regardless of device or context
	
	`14px`

-	Relative units are displayed relative to the environment in which they are found.
	
	`1em => 100% of its default font size.`



### 1. Absolute Values/ Fixed Values

Absolute values are well suited for devices with a known output size.

```
in => inches
cm => centimeters
mm => millimeters
pt => points
pc => picas
```

### 2. Relative Values/Units

- Its value is relative to the lenght of the of another property

- Well suited for devices like screens, where the device size and resolution is not know or could change. 

```
em => ems
ex => exes
px => pixels
gd => grids
rem => root ems

vw => viewport width
vh => viewport height
vm => viewport minimum
ch => character

```

## Pixels


Pixel is not technically absolute, the size of pixel is actually relative to the display of the device its shown on.

NOTE: Not the size of the monitor that changes when we change the resolution but the size of the pixels

## EMS (Need to clarify)

When used with font-size, 1em is equal to the default font size for the device.

```css
	body {font-size: 100%;}
	h1 {font-size:1.6em;}
	h2 {font-size:1.4em;}
	p {font-size:1em;}
```

It really matters where the em is used.

```css
	h1{
		font-size: 2em;
		margin-bottom: 1em;
	}	
		/* 
	
		device font size: 16px
		2 * 16 = 32px font size
		32px bottom margin
	
		*/
	  
```


## EX & REM


-	Ex is based on the "x-height" of a font
-	Root Ems are like ems, only they're relative to the root unit (body,html), not the element's immediate parent.

-	Root Ems are not fully supported yet.

## Persentages

Percentage values are calculated relative to their parent element.


## Length Values

If its ZERO then we don't need to specify its unit.

```css
	ul {padding: 0;}
```

Length & its unit abbr doesn't have space between them

```css
	p { padding:20px;}
```

Multiple of current value

```css
	p {line-height:1.5}
```



